README.asciidoc, before:

= Parceler

image:https://travis-ci.org/johncarl81/parceler.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/johncarl81/parceler"]

In Android, http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Parcelable.html[Parcelables] are a great way to serialize Java Objects between Contexts.
http://www.developerphil.com/parcelable-vs-serializable/[Compared] with traditional Serialization, Parcelables take on the
order of 10x less time to both serialize and deserialize.  There is a major flaw with Parcelables, however.
Parcelables contain a ton of boilerplate code.
To implement a Parcelable, you must mirror the +writeToParcel()+ and +createFromParcel()+ methods such that they read and write to the Parcel in the same order.
Also, a Parcelable must define a +public final static Parcelable.Creator CREATOR+ in order for the Android infrastructure to be able to leverage the serialization code.

Parceler is a code generation library that generates the Android Parcelable boilerplate source code.
No longer do you have to implement the Parcelable interface, the +writeToParcel()+ or +createFromParcel()+ or the +public static final CREATOR+.
You simply annotate a POJO with +@Parcel+ and Parceler does the rest.
Because Parceler uses the Java JSR-269 Annotation Processor, there is no need to run a tool manually to generate the Parcelable code.
Just annotate your Java Bean, compile and you are finished.
By default, Parceler will serialize the fields of your instance directly:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel
public class Example {
    String name;
    int age;

    public Example(){ /*Required empty bean constructor*/ }

    public Example(int age, String name) {
        this.age = age;
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getName() { return name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
}
----

Be careful not to use private fields when using the default field serialization strategy as it will incur a performance penalty due to reflection.

To use the generated code, you may reference the generated class directly, or via the +Parcels+ utility class:

[source,java]
----
Parcelable wrapped = Parcels.wrap(new Example("Andy", 42);
----

To dereference the +@Parcel+, just call the +Parcels.unwrap()+ method:

[source,java]
----
Example example = Parcels.unwrap(wrapped);
example.getName(); // Andy
example.getAge(); // 42
----

Of course, the ParcelWrapper can be added to an Android Bundle to transfer from Activity to Activity:

[source,java]
----
Bundle bundle = new Bundle();
bundle.putParcelable("example", Parcels.wrap(example));
----

And dereferenced in the +onCreate()+ method:

[source,java]
----
Example example = Parcels.unwrap(this.getIntent().getExtras().get("example"));
----

Only a select number of types may be used as attributes of a +@Parcel+ class.  The following list includes the mapped
types:

 * +byte+
 * +double+
 * +float+
 * +int+
 * +long+
 * +String+
 * +IBinder+
 * +Bundle+
 * +SparseArray+ of any of the mapped types
 * +SparseBooleanArray+
 * +Exception+
 * +List+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Map+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Set+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Parcel+
 * +Serializable+
 * Array of any of the mapped types
 * Any other class annotated with +@Parcel+

Parceler may be configured to serialize using getter and setter methods and a non-empty constructor.
In addition, fields, methods and constructor parameters may be associated using the +@ParcelParameter+ annotation.
This supports a number of bean strategies including immutability and traditional getter/setter beans.

To configure default method serialization, simply configure the +@Parcel+ annotation with +Serialization.METHOD+:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel(Serialization.METHOD)
public class Example {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    public String getName() { return name; }
    public void setName(String name) { this.name = name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
    public void setAge(int age) { this.age = age; }
}
----

To use a constructor with serialization, annotate the desired constructor with the +@ParcelConstructor+ annotation:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel(Serialization.METHOD)
public class Example {
    private final String name;
    private final int age;

    @ParcelConstructor
    public Example(int age, String name) {
        this.age = age;
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getName() { return name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
}
----

You may also mix and match serialization techniques using the +@ParcelParameter+ annotation.
In the following example, +firstName+ and +lastName+ are written to the bean using the constructor while +firstName+
is read from the bean using the field and +lastName+ is read using the +getLastName()+ method.  The paramters +firstName+
and +lastName+ are coordinated by the parameter names +"first"+ and +"last"+ respectfully.

[source,java]
----
@Parcel
public class Example {
    @ParcelParameter("first")
    String firstName;
    String lastName;

    @ParcelConstructor
    public Example(@ParcelParam("first") String firstName, @ParcelParam("last") String lastName){
        this.firstName = firstName;
        this.lastName = lastName;
    }

    public String getFirstName() { return firstName; }

    @ParcelParameter("last");
    public int getLastName() { return lastName; }
}
----

For attributes that should not be serialized with Parceler, the attribute field, getter or setter may be annotated by +@Transient+.

+@Parcel+ includes an optional parameter to include a manual serializer +ParcelConverter+ for the case where special
serialization is necessary.  Ths provides a still cleaner option for using Parcelable classes than implementing them by
hand.

For classes whose corresponding Java source is not available, one may include the class as a Parcel by using the
+@ParcelClass+ annotation.  This annotation may be declared anywhere in the compiled source that is convenient.  For
instance, one could include the +@ParcelClass+ along with the Android Application:

[source,java]
----
@ParcelClass(LibraryParcel.class)
public class AndroidApplication extends Application{
    //...
}
----

Multiple +@ParcelClass+ annotations may be declared using the +@ParcelClasses+ annotation.



== Getting Parceler

You may download Parceler as a Maven dependency:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.parceler</groupId>
    <artifactId>parceler</artifactId>
    <version>${parceler.version}</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.parceler</groupId>
    <artifactId>parceler-api</artifactId>
    <version>${parceler.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

Or from http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.parceler%22[Maven Central].

.License
----
Copyright 2013 John Ericksen

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
----

Commit message:

Fixed constructor to property in superclass associations and validations.

README.asciidoc, after:

= Parceler

image:https://travis-ci.org/johncarl81/parceler.png?branch=master["Build Status", link="https://travis-ci.org/johncarl81/parceler"]

In Android, http://developer.android.com/reference/android/os/Parcelable.html[Parcelables] are a great way to serialize Java Objects between Contexts.
http://www.developerphil.com/parcelable-vs-serializable/[Compared] with traditional Serialization, Parcelables take on the
order of 10x less time to both serialize and deserialize.  There is a major flaw with Parcelables, however.
Parcelables contain a ton of boilerplate code.
To implement a Parcelable, you must mirror the +writeToParcel()+ and +createFromParcel()+ methods such that they read and write to the Parcel in the same order.
Also, a Parcelable must define a +public final static Parcelable.Creator CREATOR+ in order for the Android infrastructure to be able to leverage the serialization code.

Parceler is a code generation library that generates the Android Parcelable boilerplate source code.
No longer do you have to implement the Parcelable interface, the +writeToParcel()+ or +createFromParcel()+ or the +public static final CREATOR+.
You simply annotate a POJO with +@Parcel+ and Parceler does the rest.
Because Parceler uses the Java JSR-269 Annotation Processor, there is no need to run a tool manually to generate the Parcelable code.
Just annotate your Java Bean, compile and you are finished.
By default, Parceler will serialize the fields of your instance directly:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel
public class Example {
    String name;
    int age;

    public Example(){ /*Required empty bean constructor*/ }

    public Example(int age, String name) {
        this.age = age;
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getName() { return name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
}
----

Be careful not to use private fields when using the default field serialization strategy as it will incur a performance penalty due to reflection.

To use the generated code, you may reference the generated class directly, or via the +Parcels+ utility class:

[source,java]
----
Parcelable wrapped = Parcels.wrap(new Example("Andy", 42);
----

To dereference the +@Parcel+, just call the +Parcels.unwrap()+ method:

[source,java]
----
Example example = Parcels.unwrap(wrapped);
example.getName(); // Andy
example.getAge(); // 42
----

Of course, the ParcelWrapper can be added to an Android Bundle to transfer from Activity to Activity:

[source,java]
----
Bundle bundle = new Bundle();
bundle.putParcelable("example", Parcels.wrap(example));
----

And dereferenced in the +onCreate()+ method:

[source,java]
----
Example example = Parcels.unwrap(this.getIntent().getExtras().get("example"));
----

Only a select number of types may be used as attributes of a +@Parcel+ class.  The following list includes the mapped
types:

 * +byte+
 * +double+
 * +float+
 * +int+
 * +long+
 * +String+
 * +IBinder+
 * +Bundle+
 * +SparseArray+ of any of the mapped types
 * +SparseBooleanArray+
 * +Exception+
 * +List+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Map+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Set+ of any of the mapped types
 * +Parcel+
 * +Serializable+
 * Array of any of the mapped types
 * Any other class annotated with +@Parcel+

Parceler may be configured to serialize using getter and setter methods and a non-empty constructor.
In addition, fields, methods and constructor parameters may be associated using the +@ParcelParameter+ annotation.
This supports a number of bean strategies including immutability and traditional getter/setter beans.

To configure default method serialization, simply configure the +@Parcel+ annotation with +Serialization.METHOD+:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel(Serialization.METHOD)
public class Example {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    public String getName() { return name; }
    public void setName(String name) { this.name = name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
    public void setAge(int age) { this.age = age; }
}
----

To use a constructor with serialization, annotate the desired constructor with the +@ParcelConstructor+ annotation:

[source,java]
----
@Parcel(Serialization.METHOD)
public class Example {
    private final String name;
    private final int age;

    @ParcelConstructor
    public Example(int age, String name) {
        this.age = age;
        this.name = name;
    }

    public String getName() { return name; }

    public int getAge() { return age; }
}
----

If an empty constructor is present, Parceler will use that constructor unless another constructor is annotated.

You may also mix and match serialization techniques using the +@ParcelParameter+ annotation.
In the following example, +firstName+ and +lastName+ are written to the bean using the constructor while +firstName+
is read from the bean using the field and +lastName+ is read using the +getLastName()+ method.  The paramters +firstName+
and +lastName+ are coordinated by the parameter names +"first"+ and +"last"+ respectfully.

[source,java]
----
@Parcel
public class Example {
    @ParcelParameter("first")
    String firstName;
    String lastName;

    @ParcelConstructor
    public Example(@ParcelParam("first") String firstName, @ParcelParam("last") String lastName){
        this.firstName = firstName;
        this.lastName = lastName;
    }

    public String getFirstName() { return firstName; }

    @ParcelParameter("last");
    public int getLastName() { return lastName; }
}
----

For attributes that should not be serialized with Parceler, the attribute field, getter or setter may be annotated by +@Transient+.

+@Parcel+ includes an optional parameter to include a manual serializer +ParcelConverter+ for the case where special
serialization is necessary.  Ths provides a still cleaner option for using Parcelable classes than implementing them by
hand.

For classes whose corresponding Java source is not available, one may include the class as a Parcel by using the
+@ParcelClass+ annotation.  This annotation may be declared anywhere in the compiled source that is convenient.  For
instance, one could include the +@ParcelClass+ along with the Android Application:

[source,java]
----
@ParcelClass(LibraryParcel.class)
public class AndroidApplication extends Application{
    //...
}
----

Multiple +@ParcelClass+ annotations may be declared using the +@ParcelClasses+ annotation.



== Getting Parceler

You may download Parceler as a Maven dependency:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.parceler</groupId>
    <artifactId>parceler</artifactId>
    <version>${parceler.version}</version>
    <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.parceler</groupId>
    <artifactId>parceler-api</artifactId>
    <version>${parceler.version}</version>
</dependency>
----

Or from http://search.maven.org/#search%7Cga%7C1%7Cg%3A%22org.parceler%22[Maven Central].

.License
----
Copyright 2013 John Ericksen

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
----
